Arlarm specification
====================

1. Purpose and scope
--------------------

Through this smartphone application, the user should be able to:
- set multiple labelled alarms
- set multiple labelled timers 

Note that, since the main purpose of the application is to implement the timepicker component, the rest of the app is of secondary priority and only loosely specified.

2. Overview (main screen) (todo)
-------------------------

The Overview contains two lists over saved alarms and timers respectively. An alarm list item consists of an activate toggle button, a timestamp and a label. A timer list item consists of a start button, a time interval and a label.

A tap to the activate button activates the alarm, and likewise for the start buttons of timers. A tap to the rest of the item opens it for editing. A horizontal swipe shows a delete button to the right side.

When an alarm is activated, the activate button is enabled and tapping it again disables the alarm. When a timer is started, the start button is replaced by a cancel button

2. Overview (main screen) - mk II

The Overview contains a list over saved alarms. If there are any active timers, they are in another list on top of the other. Along the bottom are an add alarm button and an add timer button.

A timer item consists of a static timer icon, a remaining time label, a description label and a cancel button. Tapping the item opens it for editing. Tapping the cancel button shows an OK/Cancel dialog and if OK removes the timer.

An alarm item consists of an activate toggle button, a timestamp label, a description label and a remove button. Tapping the activate button activates the alarm and enables the button; tapping it again deactivates the alarm and disables the button. Tapping the item itself opens it for editing. Tapping the remove button shows an OK/Cancel dialog and if OK removes the timer.

3 Editing alarms
----------------

3 a. New alarm (todo)

Settings activity with items for time and label. Time is selected through a 

3 b. Edit alarm (todo)
4 a. New timer (todo)
(Above: edit interval. Below: list of recent interval.)
4 b. Edit timer (todo)
(Above: current timer. Below: edit interval.)



5. Timepicker
-------------

The idea of this timepicker component is to provide a quicker use than Android's default picker. It attempts to accomplish this by presenting circular sliders resembling the face of a clock: one for hours and one for minutes. The usual spinner is present as well, to display the chosen time numerically as well as to allow for stepwise adjustment.  

One piece of specification that is not yet entirely clear, is how to allow for am/pm picking without breaking the clock face analogy.

Specification
-------------

(Also see design sketches.)

The main area of the component consists of two circular slider controls, one within the other. The inner is for hours and the outer is for minutes. The inner is split in two rounds so that one round covers 12 hours and both am and pm can be chosen through the slider.

When a point on the slider is tapped, the slider control moves to the closest 12th of a round. This means resolutions of 5 minutes and 1 hour respectively. A more "minute" precision (pun indended) can be acheived 1) by tapping quickly again on the same spot and dragging the control or 2) by adjustment using the spinner.

Above the circular sliders sits a traditional set of time spinners, featuring triangular (arrowhead) buttons for stepwise increment and decrement.

The spinner and the sliders are synchronized between them.
